We didn't lecture.
Where are you going to go ahead and create our landmark book project.
And we're going to see how to implement table we use how to set up table views so we can use them efficiently
later on.
So I'm going to go for a single view app as usual and for product name I'm going to go for a landmark
book app or landmark book.
OK.
So don't check and his swift UI or car data.
We're not going to use them in this lecture.
And after we complete this actually you will have a good template in which you can build apps working
with different kinds of data working with a race so that you can build your own apps.
So let me create this and create this.
Actually my IRS app folder.
So so far so good.
We have created our projects.
So let me make this into a full screen and then later on I'm just going to go into main that storyboard.
Because we will start by adding our table view.
OK.
So table viewer is actually a view so you can drag and drop them into your weave controller in your
main storyboard and then you can actually define it in your weave controller that swift file and then
start by using them.
You going to learn about so much new things and so much new concepts during this lecture.
We're going to see how to work with delegates how to set up table we use every going to practice this
information so much later on.
So you're going to learn something new and you will get to practice it later on.
Don't worry if you get overwhelmed during this lecture okay.
So here we don't have anything.
Now I'm going to go to my library as usual and I'm going to search for a table view.
So here you see the table view and you see some other teams as well.
Don't worry about them we're going to see what they are.
In the following sections right now I want to make my table view straight to the edges right.
So one way to do that is to come over here to my constraints and give zero constraints to each of these
sites.
So make sure that they're all selected and add for constraints and it will just stretch to the edges.
So this is exactly what we want.
We want a table view filling up all the screen in our we have controller.
OK.
So later on of course we going to have another view controller in which we will display the details
of the view selected.
But right now I'm just going to go over and drag and drop my table view into my view controller files.
So let me try to go to my main sorry Bert.
Yeah.
Here so let me zoom in a little bit and as usual I'm going to control drag this table view and drop
it in my weave controller and I'm going to name this table you.
OK so that's it.
That's all I had to do to create table view and define it in my view controller.
So let's start this in our simulator and let's see how it looks like it will look like fine by the way
but we're going to have to set some things up in order to start using this table view in our coding
file.
OK but for right now I just want to see how table view looks like in my simulator and I ran this on
my iPhone X our simulator.
So let me open this every going to see some empty rows empty table view south actually.
So each row is cold at table view south.
And as you can see we have some empty rows and we're going to fill them up with data in a minute in
order to do that.
I'm just going to go ahead and close this.
OK.
And we will start working on these rows.
So let me go to you controller.
OK.
So this is our real controller that's we've done table view is already defined in here.
So right now we're going to do what we have to do while we work with table we use each time.
So whenever you add a table we've to your project you have to follow these exact steps.
So first we're going to work with this class I know you don't know even why the classes so class consists
of elements like functions and variables.
So this is like a blueprint of our app blueprint of our project.
Okay.
And this is a class of a UI view controller and reading to make this a delegate of UI table view.
So what do I mean by making get delegates.
So when you make delegate when you go to some delegate C to your class it means that this class can
use the functions of that delegate class.
So if you hit coma and say you table you delegate over here.
And also if you say UI table view data source it means that we get to use this UI table we've delegate
and UI table view data source functions in our class.
After just sections where you're going to learn about object oriented programming and you will understand
it much better.
But right now if you click on this UI table view delegate and if you say jump to definition you will
see a UI table with delegate defining in here UI table view delegate filing here.
So this is a D Swift's programming language builds in file.
Okay I you will see some functions and you will actually see how with works encoding but what we are
going to do is just take two functions out of that class out of that protocol in order to make this
work.
So when you do at the UI table have delegate.
It means that you're now capable of you have the power of using these functions and in order to make
this work you have to define two of these functions.
OK.
How are we going to see what are those obviously but know that the table you delegate and table wheel
data serves is going to be our view controller and as you can see this does not confirm to the table
view data source or UI table view delegate and in order to solve this problem I'm going to come over
here not in the V did load but under the we load.
Okay we're going to call some other functions and if I hadn't put this UI table we've delegate on UI
table view data source lines in here I wouldn't be able to call this functions that I'm about to call
right here.
So since we have done that we're going to call these functions and these are functions like we did load
over here but these are related to not we have control or lifecycle but these are actually focusing
on the table view themselves.
So let's come here and just write s for a row.
Okay.
So this is the function that we're going to create our UI table use cell.
So this is basically the row each row that you see in the table view.
So if you just type table you sell sell for a row it will just show up and double click on it and then
you have to go for number of rows in section so click on this one more time and you have these two functions
that you need to set up in order to use table view as you can see errors now went away because we have
called the necessary functions in order to confirm to this UI table we delegate and UI table view data
source and then we're going to just rewrite what we want to do inside of these functions.
So the first function actually defines the S for a row.
So as I said before our UI table view causes some rows and each of these rows has some UI table view
sets.
So whatever rewrite here it will be displayed on the table we have rows.
And basically we're going to get data from an array and we're going to show those arrays if we're going
to show these elements of arrays inside of the zeros and in here we're going to define what kind of
a number we want to return.
So to returns on integer as you can see.
So if we say return 10 our table you will have 10 rows.
And in here he two returns your table to you sell.
So I'm going to create a table you sell and it's going to return a UI table to you.
So I'm going to say let s is a UI table to you sell just like we are creating a view with a code rather
than dragging and dropping it in our main that storyboard.
And this will be ours.
How.
Right.
And in this.
Actually I can just change the tax change the way it looks.
So I'm gonna do that.
But for right now I'm just going to say return.
So.
So the error went away because this was expecting yes.
And I gave it one.
So if you say sell that tax label you can write whatever you want in it.
So sell the tax label dot tax is test for example.
And here we have some optional issues so you have to make this tax label optional.
OK.
And before we test this you have to come to with that load and you have to say table you delegate is
actually the view controller that we are in.
And in order to do that what you're going to write here is not the view controller itself but you're
just going to have to type s.
So remember we refer our real controller with s keyword like we did before.
So I'm going to go for self and it refers to controller.
OK.
And delegate and also the table view data source will be self as well because we're going to get the
data source from this view controller.
So that's the final thing that we need to do in order to use this table view.
So I'm going to go for some far more time okay and I'm going to say table view table view.
Okay.
That data serves is again south.
So that's it.
And maybe it's just kind of overwhelming right now but you will get used to it because Reagan to do
this a lot in the following sections as well.
OK.
Because we will need table views in almost every app that we going to build because they're so efficient
they make our life so easy.
So you have to call you a table where you delegate and table with data serves you have to sign this
table to use to your weave controller and then you have to call these two functions in which you define
the table you sell and in which you define the table view number of rows.
So if everything's fine we're going to see 10 rows as we can in here and they are all field tests.
So this works.
Right.
So rather than test I'm going to display some data in here and this data will come from an array and
the magic here is that this table view has some index as we have in arrays so for example the first
row has the index of 0.
So as you can see our arrays has the index of 0 for the first element as well so we can ordinarily define
an orderly show the content of an array inside of our table view.
So that's what we're going to work on during this section.
Let's stop here actually and not make this lecture into a very long one and we will continue building
our landmark book app within the next lecture.